.TH RERUN 1 "" "RERUN User Manual" "1.1.0"
.SH NAME
.PP
rerun \- a modular shell automation framework to organize your keeper
scripts.
.SH SYNOPSYS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun\ [\-h][\-v][\-V]\ [\-M\ <dir>]\ [\-\-loglevel\ <>]\ [module:[command\ [options]]]
\f[]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Rerun is a simple command runner that turns loose shell scripts into
modular automation.
Rerun will help you organize your scripts into well defined command
interfaces.
Collections of management modules can be archived and delivered as a
single executable to facilitate team hand offs.
Using the "stubbs" module, rerun will even facilitate documentation and
unit tests.
.PP
Rerun provides two modes of operation:
.IP "1." 3
\f[I]Listing\f[]: Rerun lists modules and commands.
Listing information includes name, description and command line usage
syntax.
.IP "2." 3
\f[I]Execution\f[]: Rerun provides option processing (possibly
defaulting unspecified arguments) and executes a script for the
specified module command.
.PP
For the module developer, rerun is a trivial framework following simple
conventions that easily fit in a shell environment.
Rerun includes a module development tool called "stubbs" that helps
create and evolve rerun modules.
Stubbs contains commands to automate option processing code, metadata
definition and unit testing.
.PP
Internally, \f[C]rerun\f[] implements a simple dispatching mechanism to
look up named commands and execute them.
\f[I]Commands\f[] are logically named and have a corresponding script.
.PP
Commands reside in a module and can have named parameters called
\f[I]options\f[].
Each option is named, described and can also be defined to use a default
value or say whether it is required or not.
.PP
Rerun modules can also declare metadata describing name, description and
other aspects of each command.
Rerun makes use of this metadata to support a listing mode, a feature
where modules and command usage are summarized for end users.
.PP
See the project wiki (https://github.com/rerun/rerun/wiki) for
additional documentation including:
.IP \[bu] 2
Getting started (https://github.com/rerun/rerun/wiki)
.IP \[bu] 2
Installation (https://github.com/rerun/rerun/wiki/Installation)
.IP \[bu] 2
Stubbs module
tool (https://github.com/rerun/rerun/tree/master/modules/stubbs)
.IP \[bu] 2
Why rerun? (https://github.com/rerun/rerun/wiki/Why-rerun%3F)
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\f[C]\-h\f[] : Print help and usage then exit.
.PP
\f[C]\-\-loglevel\f[] \f[I]level\f[] : Set the default log level (debug
info warn error fatal).
See rerun_log API.
.PP
\f[C]\-M\f[] \f[I]DIRECTORY\f[] : Module library directory path.
.PP
\f[C]\-v\f[] : Execute \f[I]command\f[] in verbose mode.
.PP
\f[C]\-V\f[] : Execute \f[C]rerun\f[] and \f[I]command\f[] in verbose
mode.
.SH USING
.SS Help
.PP
For command line syntax and example usage execute \f[C]rerun\f[] using
the \f[C]\-\-help\f[] flag:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ ./rerun\ \-\-help
\ _\ __\ ___\ _\ __\ _\ \ \ _\ _\ __
|\ \[aq]__/\ _\ \\\ \[aq]__|\ |\ |\ |\ \[aq]_\ \\\ 
|\ |\ |\ \ __/\ |\ \ |\ |_|\ |\ |\ |\ |
|_|\ \ \\___|_|\ \ \ \\__,_|_|\ |_|
Version:\ 1.0.3.\ License:\ Apache\ 2.0.

Usage:\ rerun\ [\-h][\-v][\-V]\ [\-M\ <dir>]\ [module:[command\ [options]]]
\f[]
.fi
.SS Listing
.PP
Without arguments, \f[C]rerun\f[] will list existing modules and their
description and version:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ rerun
\ \ stubbs:\ "Simple\ rerun\ module\ builder"\ \-\ 1.0.3
\f[]
.fi
.PP
To list the commands available in a module specify the module name too.
Here the commands are listed for the \[aq]stubbs\[aq] module:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ rerun\ stubbs
\ add\-command:\ "add\ command\ to\ module"
\ \ \ \ \ \-\-command|\-c\ <>:\ "the\ command\ name"
\ \ \ \ \ \-\-description\ <>:\ "the\ brief\ description"
\ \ \ \ \ \-\-module|\-m\ <>:\ "the\ module\ name"
\ \ \ \ [\ \-\-overwrite\ <false>]:\ "should\ overwrite?"
\ add\-module:\ "add\ a\ new\ module"
\ \ \ \ \ \-\-description\ <>:\ "the\ brief\ description"
\ \ \ \ \ \-\-module|\-m\ <>:\ "the\ module\ name"
\ \ \ \ [\ \-\-template\ <>]:\ "the\ template\ name\ or\ path"
\ \ \ \ .
\ \ \ \ .\ 
\ \ \ \ .
\ \ \ \ 
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The command listing includes the command description and any options
assigned to the command.
.PP
Options that declare a default value are shown with a string between the
"<>" characters.
.PP
For example, notice how "\-\-overwrite" option shows \f[C]<false>\f[].
The "false" is the default value assigned to the "\-\-overwrite" option.
.PP
See the "Environment" section below to learn about the
\f[C]RERUN_MODULES\f[] environment variable.
This variable specifies the directory where rerun modules exist.
.SS Bash completion
.PP
If you are a Bash shell user, be sure to source the
\f[C]bash_completion.sh\f[] file.
It provides listing via the tab key.
.PP
Type \f[C]rerun\f[] and then the tab key.
The shell will generate a list of existing modules.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ rerun[TAB][TAB]
stubbs:\ 
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Rerun shows the module "stubbs".
.PP
Typing the \f[C]s\f[] character and the tab key again will show the
commands inside the "stubbs" module:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ rerun\ stubbs:\ [TAB]
add\-command\ \ add\-module\ \ add\-option\ \ archive\ \ docs\ \ edit\ \ migrate\ \ rm\-option\ \ test
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Several commands are listed.
Press tab again and choose a command.
You can specify the first few characters and the command name will be
completed, too.
.PP
After accepting a command, typing the tab key will list the command
options.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ rerun\ stubbs:\ add\-module\ \-[TAB]
\-\-description\ \ \-\-module\ \ \-\-template
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The \f[C]stubbs:add\-module\f[] command accepts three options
(\-\-description <> \-\-module <> \-\-template <>).
.PP
You can continue using command completion to cycle through the remaining
options.
.SS Command execution
.PP
Commands are executed by stating the module, command and any command
options.
The basic usage form is "\f[C]rerun\f[] \f[I]module\f[]:\f[I]command\f[]
[ \f[I]options\f[] ]".
.PP
To run the "archive" command in the stubbs module, type:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ rerun\ stubbs:archive
Wrote\ self\ extracting\ archive\ script:\ /tmp/rerun.bin
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Command options are passed after the "module:command" string.
Run the "stubbs:archive" command but specify where the archive file is
written.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ rerun\ stubbs:archive\ \-\-modules\ waitfor\ \-\-file\ $HOME/rerun.bin
\f[]
.fi
.PP
If the \[aq]stubbs\[aq] module is stored in \f[C]/var/rerun\f[], then
the command usage would be:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ rerun\ \-M\ /var/rerun\ stubbs:archive
\f[]
.fi
.SS Archives
.PP
An \f[I]archive\f[] contains all the rerun modules you need (you might
have a library of them) and gives you the same exact interface as
rerun,...
all in one file!
.PP
Specifically, an archive is a set of modules and \f[C]rerun\f[] itself
packaged into a self extracting script (by default in a file named
"rerun.bin").
Archives can be useful if you want to share a single self contained
executable that contains all the needed modules.
.PP
Run an archive script like you would run \f[C]rerun\f[].
.PP
You can execute an archive via \f[C]bash\f[] like so:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ bash\ rerun.bin\ <module>:<command>\ \-\-your\ options
\f[]
.fi
.PP
If the execute bit is set, invoke the archive directly.
.PP
Here the archive is executed without arguments which causes the archive
to list the modules contained within it.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ ./rerun.bin
\ \ waitfor:\ "utility\ commands\ that\ wait\ for\ a\ condition."
\ \ .
\ \ .\ listing\ output\ ommitted
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Note, ".bin" is just a suffix naming convention for a self\-extracting
script.
The archive file can be named anything you wish.
.PP
Run the \f[C]waitfor:ping\f[] command in the archive:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ ./rerun.bin\ waitfor:ping\ \-\-server\ remoteserver
\f[]
.fi
.PP
\f[I]Archive special options\f[]
.PP
Shell archives can be executed using special parameters of its own.
Below is a list of these optional arguments:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]\-\-archive\-version\-release\f[]: Print the archive version and
release info and exit.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]\-\-extract\-only|\-N\ <>\f[]: Extract the archive to the specified
directory and exit.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]\-\-extract\-dir|\-D\ <>\f[]: Extract the archive to the specified
directory and then execute the specified command.
By default, the \f[C]TMPDIR\f[] environment variable is used to create a
directory to extract the archive.
.PP
See \f[C]stubbs:archive\f[] for further information about creating and
understanding rerun archives.
.SH MODULES
.SS Layout
.PP
A rerun module assumes the following structure:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
<MODULE>
|\-\-\ commands
|\-\-\ `\-\-\ cmdA\ (directory\ for\ cmdA\ files)
|\-\-\ \ \ \ \ |\-\-\ metadata\ (command\ metadata)
|\-\-\ \ \ \ \ |\-\-\ options.sh\ (option\ parsing\ script)
|\-\-\ \ \ \ \ `\-\-\ script\ (command\ script)
|\-\-\ lib
|\-\-\ `\-\-\ functions.sh\ (module\ function\ library)
|\-\-\ metadata\ (module\ metadata)
|\-\-\ options\ (module\ options)
|\ \ \ `\-\-\ optyY\ ("optY"\ option)
|\ \ \ \ \ \ \ `\-\-\ metadata\ (declares\ metadata\ for\ "optY"\ option)
`\-\-\ tests
\ \ \ \ `\-\-\ cmdA\-1\-test.sh\ (unit\ tests\ for\ cmdA)
\f[]
.fi
.SS Command Scripts
.PP
Rerun\[aq]s internal dispatch logic uses the directory layout described
above to find and execute scripts for each command.
.PP
Rerun expects an implementation script for each command.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]script\f[]: Script implementation.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]options.sh\f[]: Script to parse options (generated by stubbs for
"bash" modules).
.SS Metadata
.PP
The metadata file format uses line separated \f[I]KEY=value\f[] pairs to
define module attributes.
The module metadata file declares two properties:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]NAME\f[]: Declare name displayed to user.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]DESCRIPTION\f[]: Brief explanation of use.
.PP
For example, a module named \f[C]waitfor\f[] is declared in a file
called \f[C]RERUN_MODULES/waitfor/metadata\f[]:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
NAME="waitfor"
DESCRIPTION="utility\ commands\ that\ wait\ for\ a\ condition."
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Command metadata is described in a file called
\f[C]RERUN_MODULES/<module>/commands/<command>/metadata\f[].
It uses NAME and DESCRIPTION properties like a module but adds, OPTIONS.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]OPTIONS\f[]: List of options assigned to the command.
.PP
Here\[aq]s the command metadata for the "ping" command:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
NAME="ping"
DESCRIPTION="wait\ for\ ping\ response\ from\ a\ host"
OPTIONS="host\ interval"
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Each command can have options assigned to it.
The example above shows that the "ping" command has options called
"host" and "interval".
.PP
Options are described in their own metadata files following the naming
convention: \f[C]RERUN_MODULES/<module>/options/<option>/metadata\f[].
Beyond just \f[C]NAME\f[] and \f[C]DESCRIPTION\f[], options can also
declare:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]ARGUMENTS\f[]: Does the option take an argument.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]REQUIRED\f[]: Is the option required.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]DEFAULT\f[]: Sensible value for an option default
.PP
Here\[aq]s the metadata describing an option named "host":
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
NAME=host
DESCRIPTION="the\ server\ to\ reach"
ARGUMENTS=true
REQUIRED=true
DEFAULT=
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Combining the examples above into the layout described earlier the
"waitfor" module along with its command "ping" are illustrated here:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
modules/waitfor/
|\-\-\ commands
|\ \ \ `\-\-\ ping
|\ \ \ \ \ \ \ |\-\-\ metadata
|\ \ \ \ \ \ \ |\-\-\ options.sh
|\ \ \ \ \ \ \ `\-\-\ script
|\-\-\ lib
|\ \ \ `\-\-\ functions.sh
|\-\-\ metadata
|\-\-\ options
|\ \ \ |\-\-\ jumps
|\ \ \ |\ \ \ `\-\-\ metadata
|\ \ \ `\-\-\ subject
|\ \ \ \ \ \ \ `\-\-\ metadata
`\-\-\ tests
\ \ \ \ `\-\-\ ping\-1\-test.sh
\f[]
.fi
.SH API
.PP
The rerun executable is also a sourceable file containing a number of
public functions useful in your modules.
Read the rerun source file for the inline documentation.
.PP
Using stubbs:add\-command to add commands to your module will already
take care of sourcing the rerun file for you.
.PP
To source rerun yourself, simply "dot" the file:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
\&.\ $(which\ rerun)
\f[]
.fi
.SS Exit on error
.PP
The \f[C]rerun_die\f[] function will print a message and exit.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_die\ "hit\ a\ nasty\ problem."
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The default exit code is "1".
You can specify another code:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_die\ 3\ "exiting\ this\ program\ with\ exit\ code\ 3"
\f[]
.fi
.SS Listing
.PP
A number of functions are useful for listing modules, commands and
options.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]rerun_modules\ directory\f[] \- list the modules in the directory
.PD 0
.P
.PD
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]rerun_commands\ directory\ module\f[] \- List the commands for the
specified module.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]rerun_options\ directory\ module\ command\f[] \- List the options
assigned to command.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]rerun_module_options\ directory\ module\f[] \- List the options for
the specified module
.SS Logging
.PP
The \f[C]rerun_log\f[] function provides an API to standard logging
functions.
If you would like to standardize how you write messages to the console
or to a logfile (or syslog), consider \f[C]rerun_log\f[].
.PP
The \f[C]rerun_log\f[] function can perform a variety of actions but the
default one is to log a message to the configured (or default) log
level.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_log\ "this\ is\ my\ message\ text"
\f[]
.fi
.PP
On the console, the user would see:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
[info]\ :\ this\ is\ my\ message\ text
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The default message level is "info".
.PP
The rerun_log function can perform a number of actions:
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]fmt\-console\ ?format\-string?\f[] \- set or get the message format
printed to console.
Default: \f[C][%level%]\ %command%:\ %message%\f[]
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]fmt\-logfile\ ?format\-string?\f[] \- set or get the message format
printed to logfiles.
Default \f[C][%tstamp%]\ [%level%]\ %command%:\ %message%\f[]
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
Message format strings support the following tokens:
.RS 2
.IP \[bu] 2
%tstamp%: Date\-timestamp (i.e., \f[C]+%Y\-%m\-%dT%H%M%S\-%Z\f[])
.IP \[bu] 2
%level%: The message level.
.IP \[bu] 2
%command%: The command context (formatted as: module:command).
.IP \[bu] 2
%message%: The message text.
.RE
.RE
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]levels\f[] \- print the supported log levels.
(eg, debug info warn error fatal)
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]level\ ?level?\f[] \- set or get the current log level.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]log\ priority\ message\f[] \- write the message to the log at the
specified priority.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]logfile\ ?path?\f[] \- set or get the current log file to write
messages.
.IP \[bu] 2
\f[C]syslog\ ?facility?\f[] \- set or get the current syslog facility.
Set it to empty disables syslog.
.PP
To list the set of supported log levels use the \f[C]levels\f[] action:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_log\ levels
debug\ info\ warn\ error\ fatal
\f[]
.fi
.PP
To find out the currently set log level use the \f[C]level\f[] action:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_log\ level
info
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Messages will only be logged if the level is the same or greater than
the current level.
You can set it to another level to control what messages are produced.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_log\ level\ error
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Now only messages of error or fatal will be produced.
Invalid log levels are ignored.
.PP
To write a message to a particular level, just specify it.
Here\[aq]s an info level message:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_log\ info\ "here\ is\ an\ info\ message"
\f[]
.fi
.PP
To write an error level message, use "error" action:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_log\ error\ "here\ is\ an\ error\ message"
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Messages of error or fatal level are written to stderr.
.PP
Log messages can also be written to a log file by specifying one via the
\f[C]logfile\f[] action.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_log\ logfile\ my.log
rerun_log\ warn\ "here\ is\ a\ warning\ message"
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Use the \f[C]cat\f[] command to see the log messages:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
cat\ my.log
[2013\-09\-12T121553\-PDT]\ [warn]\ :\ here\ is\ a\ warning\ message
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Notice the the logfile also includes a timestamp before the level name.
To stop messages being written to the log file, set it to "" (empty
string):
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_log\ logfile\ ""
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Messages can also be directed to syslog by assigning a syslog facility
via \f[C]syslog\f[] action.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_log\ syslog\ "local3"
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Messages produced by rerun_log will directed to the local3.{level}
priority.
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_log\ info\ "here\ is\ a\ message\ also\ visible\ in\ syslog"
\f[]
.fi
.PP
On my system this is visible in /var/log/messages:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
Sep\ 12\ 09:59:28\ Targa.local\ alexh\ (rerun)[92715]:\ here\ is\ a\ message\ also\ visible\ in\ syslog
\f[]
.fi
.PP
Be sure to specify a valid syslog facility name or you will get an
error.
.PP
Typically, the rerun_log function is called from inside a command
script.
The module and command name will be read from the executing context and
included as part of the standard message.
Imagine a command \f[C]hello:say\ \-\-msg\ HI\f[] that logs its message:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
rerun_log\ info\ "the\ message\ is\ \[aq]$MSG\[aq]"
\f[]
.fi
.PP
The user would see the following message on the console:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
[info]\ hello:say:\ the\ message\ is\ \[aq]HI\[aq]
\f[]
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\f[C]RERUN_MODULES\f[] : Path to directory containing rerun modules.
If RERUN_MODULES is not set, it is defaulted relative to the location of
the rerun executable.
.PP
\f[C]RERUN_COLOR\f[] : Set \[aq]true\[aq] if you want ANSI text effects.
Makes labels in text to print bold in the console.
Syntax errors will also print bold.
.SH VERSIONING
.PP
Rerun and its modules following the Semantic Versioning
Specification (http://semver.org).
As a consequence, any backwards incompatible change to Rerun will result
in its major version number being incremented.
Module developers are expected to provide a version of their module
compatible with each major version of Rerun.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
To create modules, see
stubbs (https://github.com/rerun/rerun/tree/master/modules/stubbs).
.SH ERROR CODE
.PP
\f[C]0\f[] : All commands executed successfully.
.PP
\f[C]1\f[] : One or more commands failed.
.PP
\f[C]2\f[] : Option syntax error.
.PP
\f[C]127\f[] : Unknown error case.
.SH LICENSE
.PP
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at
.PP
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE\-2.0
.PP
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
.PP
The rerun source code and all documentation may be downloaded from
<https://github.com/rerun/rerun/>.
